Part 1: Subprograms (15 points)

Define and explain the concept of a subprogram in programming languages.

A subprogram is a repeatable sequence of instructions that is called by other locations in a program. Depending on the specific programming language, a subprogram can be called a subroutine, function, method, etc..
Subprograms all have a single entry point. They can only be executed one at a time; they cannot be executed simultaneously. After that, the execution terminates, and the control returns to the caller. Most subprograms are named.
Subprograms are collections of statements that define parameterized computations.

Differentiate between procedures and functions. Provide examples to illustrate the distinction (in any language you want).


Procedures and functions are the two types of subprograms. 
Functions return values. Procedures do not return values.
In some cases, functions can be defined to be used as procedures.
Procedures define new statements. Fortran and Ada are older languages that support procedures.
Procedures return results by modifying non-parameter variables or by altering formal parameters. In both cases, the caller observes changes after the procedure is executed.
Functions ideally cause no side effects and return a single value. Functions are sometimes used to modify parameters or external variables. Functions are invoked within expressions, and the returned value replaces the function call itself. Functions act as user-defined operators.
---------------------------------
Procedure-like example in Python:

	counter = 0
	def increment():
		global counter
		counter += 1

	increment()
	print(counter) # Output: 1
------------------------------------
Function example in Python:
	
	def add(a, b):
		return a + b

	result = add(3, 4)
	print(result) # Output: 7
------------------------------------
	

Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using subprograms in software development.

Subprograms are able to break a large program into smaller, self-contained units, making the code easier to manage. Subprograms can also be reused in many places. Abstraction is a good part of subprograms because it allows programmers to use functionality without needing to understand the internal systems.
Subprograms can impact the performance because calling subprograms adds call/return overhead. Too many subprograms can fragment the code and make control flow harder to follow.


